README.md, before:

# Darkseid

[![PyPI - Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/darkseid.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/darkseid/)
[![PyPI - Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/darkseid.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/darkseid/)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linter-Ruff-informational)](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff)
[![Pre-Commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pre--Commit-Enabled-informational?logo=pre-commit)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

A [Python](https://www.python.org/) library to interact with comic archives.

## Installation

```bash
pip install darkseid
```

There are optional dependencies which can be installed by specifying one or more
of them in braces e.g. darkseid[7zip]

The optional dependencies are:

- **7zip**: Provides support for reading/writing to CB7 files.
- **pillow**: Provides support for getting page information that is used with
  ComicInfo.xml metadata.

## Example

```python
from pathlib import Path
from darkseid.comic import Comic, MetadataFormat

comic = Comic(Path("my_comic.cbz"))

# Check if it's a valid comic
if comic.is_valid_comic():
    print(f"Comic '{comic.name}' has {comic.get_number_of_pages()} pages")

# Read metadata
if comic.has_metadata(MetadataFormat.COMIC_INFO):
    metadata = comic.read_metadata(MetadataFormat.COMIC_INFO)
    print(f"Series: {metadata.series.name}")

# Get a page
page_data = comic.get_page(0)  # First page
if page_data:
    with open("cover.jpg", "wb") as f:
        f.write(page_data)
```

## Documentation

[Read the project documentation](https://darkseid.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=latest)

## Bugs/Requests

Please use the
[GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/Metron-Project/darkseid/issues) to
submit bugs or request features.

Commit message:

Add PDF support (#199)
* Add PdfArchiver
* Add ComicInfo/MetronInfo metadata support to PdfArchiver

Enable reading and writing comic metadata (ComicInfo.xml, MetronInfo.xml)
to PDF files as embedded attachments using PyMuPDF's embfile API.

Changes to darkseid/archivers/pdf.py:
- is_write_operation_expected(): Now returns True to enable metadata writes
- get_filename_list(): Returns both page files and embedded files
- read_file(): Handles both PDF page rendering and embedded file reading
- write_file(): Embeds metadata files as PDF attachments (page files protected)
- remove_files(): Removes embedded metadata (page files protected)
- Updated module/class docstrings to reflect new capabilities

Changes to tests/test_archivers.py:
- Updated test_pdf_readonly_operations: Test metadata writes succeed, page writes fail
- Updated test_pdf_is_write_operation_expected: Expect True instead of False
- Updated test_pdf_read_invalid_page_format: Handle new embedded file error messages
- Added test_pdf_write_metadata: Test writing metadata to PDF
- Added test_pdf_read_metadata: Test reading metadata from PDF
- Added test_pdf_update_metadata: Test updating existing metadata
- Added test_pdf_remove_metadata: Test removing metadata files
- Added test_pdf_metadata_persistence: Test metadata persists across instances
- Added test_pdf_mixed_file_list: Test file list includes pages and metadata

Technical details:
- Uses PyMuPDF embfile_add/get/del/names methods for attachment management
- Incremental PDF saves preserve existing content and encryption
- PDF pages remain read-only virtual PNG files (rendered at 150 DPI)
- Metadata validated against XSD schemas (MetronInfo v1, ComicInfo)

This enables PDFs to function like other comic archive formats (CBZ, CBR)
while maintaining the native PDF structure.

* Update README.md for pdf support

* Add docs for pdf support

README.md, after:

# Darkseid

[![PyPI - Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/darkseid.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/darkseid/)
[![PyPI - Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/darkseid.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/darkseid/)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linter-Ruff-informational)](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff)
[![Pre-Commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pre--Commit-Enabled-informational?logo=pre-commit)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

A [Python](https://www.python.org/) library to interact with comic archives.

## Installation

```bash
pip install darkseid
```

There are optional dependencies which can be installed by specifying one or more
of them in braces e.g. darkseid[7zip]

The optional dependencies are:

- **7zip**: Provides support for reading/writing to CB7 files.
- **pillow**: Provides support for getting page information that is used with
  ComicInfo.xml metadata.
- **pdf**: Provides support for reading/writing metadata in PDF comics and exporting them to CBZ format. The pymupdf dependency includes pre-built wheels for most platforms. On some platforms (e.g., Linux ARM, Windows), installation may require libstdc++ and C/C++ build tools to compile libmupdf. See the [pymupdf documentation](https://pymupdf.readthedocs.io/) for details.

## Example

```python
from pathlib import Path
from darkseid.comic import Comic, MetadataFormat

comic = Comic(Path("my_comic.cbz"))

# Check if it's a valid comic
if comic.is_valid_comic():
    print(f"Comic '{comic.name}' has {comic.get_number_of_pages()} pages")

# Read metadata
if comic.has_metadata(MetadataFormat.COMIC_INFO):
    metadata = comic.read_metadata(MetadataFormat.COMIC_INFO)
    print(f"Series: {metadata.series.name}")

# Get a page
page_data = comic.get_page(0)  # First page
if page_data:
    with open("cover.jpg", "wb") as f:
        f.write(page_data)
```

## Documentation

[Read the project documentation](https://darkseid.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=latest)

## Bugs/Requests

Please use the
[GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/Metron-Project/darkseid/issues) to
submit bugs or request features.
